---
permalink: for/nick
title: Nick Wolf
---

## Intro

Welcome, thanks for taking the time to read my User Manual. I first started
recording some of this in 2012 and it has grown since then. You should consider
everything listed here as a _mild_ preference and not as a strict demand. Feel
free to do what works for you best, but if you have no strong preferences you
can see how I like to operate below. This guide exists as much for helping me
with self reflection as it does with helping others learn about me.

I'm always open for feedback [here](https://nickwolf.com.au/feedback) either
about my operation as listed below or my behaviour in general.

### Work

This section covers my ideal work environment.

#### Perfect Day

A focussed block of time to tackle my current focus or project, something social
time with my team mates and some time to learn and develop either in a
workgroup, class or online course.

#### Ideal Co Workers

Someone who's eager and excited about the situation.
Someone who's happy to answer tangential questions to help me better understand.
Someone who's still got the memory of what it was like to learn something new.

#### Workflow

I'm always happy for people to add stuff direct into my workflow, if my calendar
is empty send me direct calendar invites or add stuff direct into my task list.

#### Misconceptions

My organized friends think I'm too chaotic, my chaotic friends think I'm too
ordered. I think I'm just right. Some people think I don't like food, I do.

#### Frustrations

When there isn't enough support from the organizational leaders, or lack of
clarity on what are the priorities that need to be worked on. When people shoot
down ideas or people for being different rather than on their merits.

#### Weaknesses

I can get caught up on something, help me with this by encouraging me to
estimate how long something will take and checking if I'm on schedule.

#### Meetings

I much prefer something interactive with either questions to ponder or group
discussions. I'm not a fan of one presenter reading out every single word on
powerpoint slides one by one.
Always great to have someone keeping time, someone taking notes, a clear purpose
of the meeting and a norm of people only staying for what's relevant to them.

#### Pairing

When pair programming I always appreciate people referencing line numbers,
and the less senior person doing the majority of the driving to allow them
to learn more from the experience.

Good things to discuss beforehand

- objective of the pairing session
- how we'll communicate (focus on what vs why/talking out loud why)
- when we should take breaks (potentially using pomodoros)
- when we should switch roles (potentially after each pomodoro session)

#### Mood

##### Grumpy

I only get grumpy very rarely, you can generally tell because I'll be less
communicative and talkative and withdrawn. If I'm grumpy feel free to play the
'GRUMP' card on me. If you do I hereby agree to go and eat something and either
nap or chill out for 10 minutes.

##### Happy

Things that make me happy include Finding obscure self improvement tips,
pondering cool ideas and novel experiences.

#### Feedback

##### Style

My favourite type of feedback will focus on direct examples and better ways I
could have approached each thing. I dislike vague feedback such as
_"you'll get a feel for it one day."_

##### Method

Ideally written and then discussed so I can both get clarification
in the moment and then refer and reflect on the notes later on.

##### Timing

I am a Feedback junkie and appreciate all feedback as soon as you are able to
provide it. The earlier you can let me know the sooner I can act on it. If you
can't figure out a nice way to say some feedback I still want to hear it,
because then it's especially valuable.

#### Recognition

My favourite type of recognition is nice quotes for my
[quotes](https://nickwolf.com.au/quotes) wall.

#### Names

I'll respond to Nick, Wolf, Mr Wolf, The Wolf. Nothing else unless you check
with me first.

### Lifestyle

#### Hobbies

Board Game Design, Fiction Writing, Self Improvement, Outdoor Adventuring and
figuring out what changes would have the most positive impact on a personal,
communal, societal or global level.

#### Quirks

I've been described as eclectically quirky in the past. I'm very intentional
about how I live my life (as demonstrated by the fact that I have my own user
manual). If you have suggestions on how to live life better I definitely want
to talk about them. I generally only follow social norms if they're beneficial.

### Communication

#### Medium

I prefer to have immediately important communication send through a fast
medium such as a direct message or call, and anything that does not require
immediate action sent through a slower medium via email. I am very selective
in which messaging platforms I use.

A good guide is if you need it in the next few hours, message, if you need it
in the next few days, email and if you need it in the next few seconds, call.

| Timeframe        |         Method |
| ---------------- | -------------: |
| Few days         |          Email |
| Few hours        | Direct message |
| **_Right now!_** |     Phone call |

#### Style

I prefer action based requests

_"Can you...? , I need...? , Will you...?"_

#### Timing

I generally check social or non-work related messages either after 16:00 on
a week day or on the weekend so that I can do my best to focus on what I'm
working on right now.

#### Scheduling Communication

I prefer that you either book me through my
[booking link](https://nickwolf.com.au/bookme) or by providing a list of options
rather than an individual time to prevent repeated scheduling attempts.

_"Does Monday 10:00, Tues 11:00 or Fri 12:30 suit?"_

I also greatly appreciate direct calendar invites, either through Google
Calendar or Facebook invites.

### Physical Contact

#### Handshakes

I prefer fist bumps to handshakes.

#### Hugging

I am very pro hug, and always happy to hug friends and even strangers, but
if you would like one you will have to verbally request one.

### Scheduling

#### Events

I am very calendar orientated, a nice way to get bonus points is if you send
though a calendar invite (either Google Calendar or Facebook Event)

#### One on One

I am available to book for social catchups (online or in person) at my
[website](https://nickwolf.com.au/bookme)

### Celebrations

#### Birthdays

My favourite present for my birthday is feedback. I generally doesn't like
birthday cards.

### Food

#### Preferences

##### Snacks

I'm a fan of something with cheese, or Nerd Rope in moderation.

##### Beverages

I'm a sucker for anything blood orange or citrus flavoured. I haven't had coffee
and only rarely drink tea.

| Dislikes       | Notes                                      |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| Tomatoes       | Don't like the texture, soup or sauce fine |
| Beetroot       | Don't like the flavour                     |
| Capsicum       | Don't like the flavour                     |
| Chocolate Cake | Don't like plain chocolate                 |

### Language

#### Improvement

I would like help reducing the amount I say _like_ superfluously.

I would also appreciate be called out on filler words such as _umm, err, etc_

#### Glossary

This is a list of some of the weirder words and phrases I may use around you.

| Word                               |                                                      Definition |
| ---------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------: |
| [Beeminder](https://beeminder.com) |                         Habit-tracking that charges for failing |
| Felix                              |                                  Radio persona / broadcast name |
| Growth Mindset                     |      The idea that you change skill through effort and learning |
| Memetics                           | The study of the virality, replicability and longevity of ideas |
| Nick's Funeral                     |            26th's birthday party and ending of SYN volunteering |
| Project Baseline                   |      A collection of actions that raise your baseline happiness |
| Pebble                             |         Smart watch with interactive notifications and controls |
| Sex Geekdom                        |      Group of sex educators and sex enthusiasts who discuss sex |
| Soylent/Lent                       |                                          Meal replacement shake |
| SYN/Synner                         |                         Youth radio and television organisation |
| Wallstreet                         |       A Prediction Market based social deduction game Nick Made |

### Profiles

| Platform      |                                            Username |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------: |
| Facebook      |        [@quintrino](https://facebook.com/quintrino) |
| Twitter       |         [@quintrino](https://twitter.com/quintrino) |
| GitHub        |          [@quintrino](https://github.com/quintrino) |
| Personal Site | [https://nickwolf.com.au](https://nickwolf.com.au/) |
